---
layout: post
title:      "Rails/JS project conclusion"
date:       2020-11-20 20:26:05 +0000
permalink:  rails_js_project_conclusion
---



The Mod 4 project consisted of a lot of  paths to answers. Unlike Rails , Javascript isn’t one clear path. This took my indecisiveness to a whole different level……..


My Javascipt / Rails project application helps the user share cultural favorites with others. I focused on my background as a main topic. Gullah-Geechee People are some of the last remaining people who stilll practice ultural African music , art , spirituality , and life. I wanted to take out some time to share a snppet of it with everyone.  A stretch goal is to add user functionality and work more on Bootstrap. There are some subjects I'd like to touch on , which may help others when trying to understand these two systems.

The first subject Postgresql, it is open source object-relational database system that uses and extends the SQL language combined with many features that safely store and scale the most complicated data workloads.PostgreSQL comes with many features aimed to help developers build applications, administrators to protect data integrity and build fault-tolerant environments, and help you manage your data no matter how big or small the dataset. The foreign key constraint helps maintain the referential integrity of data between the child and parent tables.Be careful to pay attention  to your foriegn keys when creating your Has_many relationships.I spent many hours trying to remember my password , restarting , and stopping postgres to get my application to work properly. 





``` ERROR:  update or delete on table "customers" violates foreign key constraint "fk_customer" on table "contacts"
DETAIL:  Key (customer_id)=(1) is still referenced from table "contacts".
SQL state: 23503 


```



The EventHandler class provides support for dynamically generating event listeners whose methods execute a simple statement involving an incoming event object and a target object. Event handlers can be used to process the events generated by keyboard actions, mouse actions, scroll actions, and other user interactions with your application.A node can have one or more handlers for handling an event. A single handler can be used for more than one node and more than one event type. If an event handler for a child node does not consume the event, an event handler for a parent node enables the parent node to act on the event after a child node processes it and to provide common event processing for multiple child nodes.







The EventListener interface represents an object that can handle an event dispatched by an EventTarget object.An event is an important part of JavaScript.A web page responds according to an event occurred. Some events are user generated and some are generated by API’s. An event listener is a procedure in JavaScript that waits for an event to occur. The simple example of an event is a user clicking the mouse or pressing a key on the keyboard.





In conclusion , those main areas held 80% of my project as simple as it may seem when you first start . It has taught me more about how modular applications can be and I only touched the surface. I can honestly say that this project seems more difficult and I under estimated the power of working with Rails and Javascript through Postgresql.

